All right.
Now we discuss why testing this widget is Camille but challenging let's start to do some setup of mocha
to get it running inside of our browser to get started.
I'm gonna go back to the mocha J s home page so you can get here at mocha j ust dot org once here scroll
down a little bit and find the section called features the first link inside there says browser support.
We're going to click on browser support right there and it's going to show us exactly how to run Boca
inside the browser.
We're going to setup an HMO document that is dedicated specifically to testing different things inside
of our application.
So this HMO document is going to set up Moka.
And then inside of here we're going to eventually add in some additional script tags to require in JavaScript
files from our project and we're going to also write some code to test that stuff that we require in
as well.
Long story short we're going to create a new HMO file inside of our project.
It's going to contain this age mail right here.
And this is going to be kind of like our testing hardness or the platform that we use to test our browser
specific code.
All right so going to select all safety mail I'm going to copy it I'm going to go backwards my code
editor I'm still inside of that movie's testing directory.
So this is the one that has all the movie code that we just downloaded inside of my root project folder.
I'm going to make a new directory called test the reason for this is to just isolate my test related
code from my application code then inside of that test folder I'm going to make a new file called Test
dot H2 AML and then inside this e-mail file I'm going to paste all the HDL that I just copied from Vocus
home page
inside of here.
If you scroll down towards the bottom you're going to see a series of different script tags.
There are three script tags in particular right here of test array J.S. test object and test X H.R..
We're going to delete all three though script tax.
The only reason that they are in here is just for documentation purposes.
This is Moka the documentation trying to tell us Hey just so you know this is how you would get access
to one of your files and actually test it inside your project.
So again this is just documentation right here.
You and I don't have any files to test called Test array Jesus or test object or X H.R. and so on.
So again we're going to take that stuff and delete it.
All right.
I'm then going to say this file and then I'm going to open up this file inside my browser just to see
what happens when we tried to start up Moka inside the browser to open up this file.
We can do a right click right here reveal and finder there's my test each HDL file a double click it
to open up inside the browser and there we go.
So looks like nothing happened but if you look really carefully at the top right hand side there's a
little set of numbers up there.
I'm going to zoom in a little bit so I can see it more easily.
This right here means that Moka is setup and working these numbers over time are going to reflect the
number of tests that we've executed that have passed that have failed.
And how long they have taken so far.
So eventually as we start to write in some tests inside of our project we're going to see the test output
listed out here on the screen let's try to create a new test right now.
Just a really basic one and see what happens inside this document back inside my editor I'm going to
find my test directory.
I'm gonna make a new file called autocomplete dot test dot J.S..
So eventually we're going to add some code into this thing to run tests on our autocomplete widget.
But right now like I mentioned we're just gonna try to write a very simple and basic test all right.
So inside of here I'll simply say it works and then pass in second argument of a function like so.
So we saw the syntax just a moment ago when we were working on that earlier project.
If you want to write a test with Moka J.S. we call the IT function Moka makes that function globally
available.
So we don't have to required in or do anything like that.
The first argument will then be a description for the test.
In this case I don't really have anything to describe or anything so I'm just going to say it works.
And then in the test body we don't really have any code either.
So I'm going to pass in an empty function song then going to save this file and then to get this thing
to actually run we have to make sure that we include this javascript file inside of the test HDL file.
So I will go back over to test HMO I'll go down towards the bottom and then right above the last script
tag that has a class of Moka ZEC will add in another script tag but the source of autocomplete that
test dot J us and I'll close off the other side like so.
So let's save this we'll go back over to our browser run this thing and see what happens.
So refresh and I'll see that the test has been executed and I see the description right there and apparently
it has passed.
We now have one passing test.
Zero failures and all that stuff took 0.01 seconds.
Now of course this is a very simple but very basic example.
I just want to show you that yes we can run some testing stuff inside the browser and see some report
like this.
Now at this point it might seem like hey this isn't so bad right.
Like things are kind of easy and how you kind of made a big deal earlier saying oh yeah all this setup
is gonna be kind of painful.
Well yes everything we've done so far has been kind of easy.
But now here's where it's going to start to get kind of complicated.
So we need to somehow make sure that this each HTML documents that we just created is going to load
up our autocomplete widget and then inside of our autocomplete test dot J as file we need to write some
code that's going to actually test that thing.
So that's where life starts to get a little bit more confusing.
Let's take a pause right here.
We'll come back next video and start to discuss how we're going to wire all this stuff up.